Modul 7
DISPLAY AND POSITIONING
Flow of HTML

A browser will render the elements of an HTML document that has no CSS from left to right, top to bottom, 
in the same order as they exist in the document. This is called the flow of elements in HTML.

In addition to the properties that it provides to style HTML elements, CSS includes properties that change how a browser positions elements. 
These properties specify where an element is located on a page, 
if the element can share lines with other elements, and other related attributes.

In this lesson, you will learn five properties for adjusting the position of HTML elements in the browser:

position
display
z-index
float
clear
Each of these properties will allow us to position and view elements on a web page. 
They can be used in conjunction with any other styling properties you may know.


position: relative; gjør posisjonen modulerbar, static er standard og gjør den immobil.
top: 50px; fjerner 40px fra toppen, bot fra bunnen, left venstre right høyre.

position: absolute; gjør at andre elementer ignorerer dette elementet. 
Når denne er brukt vil den følge siden når den scroller. 
Hvis du ikke vil at dette skal skje bruker du position: fixed; med top, bot, right, left etc. Da blir den beholdt på samme posisjon i siden.

Vi bruker position: sticky; top 40px etc for å beholde en objekt box på en spesifikk plass

z index gir prioritet for hva som skal bli vist hvis 2 bokser har overlap.

inline elementer kan ikke bli forandret i height/width fordi de er begrenset av sin egen boks. 
block bruker hele listen, og alle inline kan bli gjort til block. Fyller hele vidden av siden.
inline-block kan være ved siden av hverandre i en linje, bare definer bredden deres.

clear definerer hva som skjer når to elementer kolliderer.

clear: left; gjør at objektet ikke kolliderer med venstre
clear: right; gjør at objektet ikke kolliderer med høyre.
clear: both; ingen kollisjon høyre/venstre
clear: none; kan kollidere med begge sidene.

float blir dårlig med inline-block elementer. Men clear er bra. 

review: 

DISPLAY AND POSITIONING
Review: Layout
Great job! In this lesson, you learned how to control the positioning of elements on a web page.

Let’s review what you’ve learned so far:

The position property allows you to specify the position of an element.
When set to relative, an element’s position is relative to its default position on the page.
When set to absolute, an element’s position is relative to its closest positioned parent element. It can be pinned to any part of the web page, 
but the element will still move with the rest of the document when the page is scrolled.
When set to fixed, an element’s position can be pinned to any part of the web page. The element will remain in view no matter what.
When set to sticky, an element can stick to a defined offset position when the user scrolls its parent container.
The z-index of an element specifies how far back or how far forward an element appears on the page when it overlaps other elements.
The display property allows you to control how an element flows vertically and horizontally in a document.
inline elements take up as little space as possible, and they cannot have manually adjusted width or height.
block elements take up the width of their container and can have manually adjusted heights.
inline-block elements can have set width and height, but they can also appear next to each other and do not take up their entire container width.
The float property can move elements as far left or as far right as possible on a web page.
You can clear an element’s left or right side (or both) using the clear property.
When combined with an understanding of the box model, positioning can create visually appealing web pages. 
So far, we’ve focused on adding content in the form of text to a web page. In the next unit, you’ll learn how to add and manipulate images to a web page.